W-14999448-dw26-formats-duke (#305)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-formats-xml.adoc

DataWeave can read and write doctype declarations in XML files.

> To read a doctype declarations, set the xref:dataweave-system-properties.adoc[system property] `com.mulesoft.dw.xml_reader.parseDtd`.

Author: Let's check if we should add this to the source.

> During the reading phase, DataWeave parses the doctype declarations and stores the content as metadata of the root element. The `DocType` value is stored in the `docType` variable. You can use the xref:dataweave-selectors.adoc[metadata selector] (`^`) to extract the value of that variable with an expression like this one:

Author: This adds a link. We should use a full URL to the page in the source so that if it's shared in other places (outside our doc set), the link will work. 
```suggestion
During the reading phase, DataWeave parses the doctype declarations and stores the content as metadata of the root element. The `DocType` value is stored in the `docType` variable. You can use the https://docs.mulesoft.com/dataweave/latest/dataweave-selectors[metadata selector] (`^`) to extract the value of that variable with an expression like this one:
```

Author: that should also go in the source

* `payload.^docType`
+
See examples <<example12>>, <<example13>> and <<example14>>.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can use the [https://docs.mulesoft.com/dataweave/latest/dataweave-selectors.adoc[metadata](https://docs.mulesoft.com/dataweave/latest/dataweave-selectors.adoc%5Bmetadata) selector] to access it.
```

+
See examples <<example12>>, <<example13>> and <<example14>>.

> You can use the xref:dataweave-selectors.adoc[metadata selector] to access it.

Author: `https://docs.mulesoft.com/dataweave/latest/dataweave-selectors[metadata selector] `

if possible to put in the source. Need to check into the options.

----
<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE cXML SYSTEM "http://xml.cXML.org/schemas/cXML/1.2.014/cXML.dtd">

> <cXML payloadID="9949494" xmlns:xml="http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace" xml:lang="en-US" timestamp="2002-02-04T18:39:09-08:00">

Author: Need to check with Ana if this should be removed or not: `xmlns:xml="http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace" `
